On January 19th, 2016, I attended a jazz performance by the Dan Haerle Quartet in the Bird Recital Hall. Dan Haerle was on piano, Mike Tracy played both the alto and the soprano saxophone, Christ Fitzgerald played bass, and Mike Hyman was on drums. 
	The first piece performed was “Body & Soul”, composed by Johnny Green and Edward Heyman, arranged by Dan Haerle. The piece begins with the piano playing the melody. The drums and the bass accompany the piano, helping to create a light timbre for the beginning of the piece. The piano melody begins by altering between dark, harsh notes and lighter notes. In context of the title of the piece, I think this represents the contrast between the body and the soul. The alto saxophone enters and takes the place of the melody for a period of time. The saxophone sounded very smooth, and the notes tended to be more drawn out. During the saxophone melody, I noticed that the bass had an edgy, almost staccato sound. The saxophone melody had a wide range of sounds, also likely to represent the distinction between soul and body. The piano eventually comes back in with its own melody, creating a melodic polyphony. The separate melodies playing at the same time can, once again, be used as an example of the piece attempting to demonstrate the difference between soul and body. Also, towards the end of the piece, I was beginning to easily notice the development of the drums. Hyman altered the drum music in such a way that it was clearly different from how it began. 
	Even during the first piece, I got a positive vibe from the performers. It was very obvious that they all enjoyed playing together. I would almost describe their performance as nostalgic. As if they had known each other for years, and it’d been a long time since they had a chance to play music just for the sake of doing something together. This feeling persisted throughout the entire performance. Each time one of the musicians had a break or were simply not performing at that moment, it was very obvious that they would stop and listen to the others and enjoy the music their friends were creating. Along with this, they would constantly check with each other during the performance to ensure that they were always playing together. This is a fairly common thing for performers to do, but it did contribute to their overall synchronization. 
	The second piece performed was “The Spirit Soars”, composed by Dan Haerle. Throughout the piece, the piano was very light. When the saxophone took over the melody, the timbre was also light and the sound was almost legato. This piece maintained homophony, with the piano and saxophone taking turns with the melody. The timbre created by the sounds, along with the saxophone trills, all contribute to a very light mood and help to create the feeling of flying. This definitely seems to go along with the title and purpose of the piece. 
	The third piece performed was “Stablemates”, composed by Dan Haerle. The saxophone had the majority of the melody in this piece, which contrasted from the previous too. Along with this, the bass played the melody for a short amount of time, and I do not believe it did this in either of the other songs. The drums seemed to have a sound that altered between symbols and the drums, and it wasn’t as developed as some of the other drum parts in the previous songs. 
	The fourth piece was “Soul Mates”, composed by Dan Haerle. Haerle actually took a few moments to speak about this piece before the performance began. He said that the song is supposed to be about being soulmates with many different people, not just your spouse. I really enjoyed that I was able to get insight into the meaning behind the piece from the person who actually wrote it. Along with this, this was the first piece that featured the soprano saxophone, and I thought this was very cool. I played alto saxophone for several years when I was younger, but I never got a chance to play a soprano saxophone. I always thought they were very cool, and I enjoyed being able to hear a live performance from one. The soprano saxophone, obviously, generally plays higher notes than the alto saxophone. It really helped to create a bright, light timbre within this piece. This piece’s saxophone melody made me think about love, for some reason. The drums never really had any hard hits and also came across as really light. Considering the content that Haerle spoke about for this piece, I think he did a great job creating a timbre for the song. 
